Getting accepted to a good college shouldn't be the end all and be all.
From what I understand if you are one of the smartest guys in your
class then it doesn't really matter where you go unless you go to the
top, super top places like Google or Facebook or Twitter something
like that. But for ninety five percent of the places if you're one
of the top students in your class then you can go to the local state
school and you can be just fine. That said if you wanted, if your
heart is set on going to a very prestigious school, then yes grades
matter and yes SAT scores matter, but I think the thing that pushes
everybody over the top is what you do outside, what you do outside of
those walls that define your high school. So if you're a computer
science major then make a program and sell a game. If you're a mechanical
engineer then make a drone and fly it to local parks. If you're
an aeronautics engineer get your pilot's license, you know, do something
that shows that you can do something that's more than just books
and studying and listen to a professor and doing your homework on
time. Do something that shows that you have a passion for what you're
trying to study and then those professors at the university will
see that and they'll listen to you.